Tangent to circle at point
Let the circle center be C and the point on the circle be A.
The normal is A - C
The tangent is the normal rotated by 90 deg -(A.x - C.x) / (A.y - C.y) = (C.x - A.x) / (A.y - C.y)

Circle through 2 points with a tangent given at at point.
Let the given points be called A and B.
If there is a circle passing through 2 points it the center of be equidistant to the points so the center has to lie on the perpendicular bisector of the segment A B.
This line can be represented as ax + b
We want to find an x that has tangent equal to t at A.
The center C = (x0, ax0 + b)
Using the formula above we get that the tangent of this circle at point is (x0 - A.x) / (A.y - ax0 - b)
We want it to be equal to t
We get the equation.
(x0 - A.x) / (A.y - ax0 - b) = t
Solving for x0 we get
(x0 - A.x) = t * (A.y - ax0 - b)
x0 - A.x = tA.y - tax0 - tb
x0 (1 + ta) = tA.y - tb + A.x
x0 = (tA.y - tb + A.x) / (1 + ta)

https://www.desmos.com/calculator/iyocrry0ec

Circle circle intersection
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3349125/circle-circle-intersection-points

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55816902/finding-the-intersection-of-two-circles

https://math.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/Geometry/Geometry_with_an_Introduction_to_Cosmic_Topology_(Hitchman)/06%3A_Elliptic_Geometry/6.01%3A_Antipodal_Points


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stereographic_projection
A two-dimensional coordinate system on the stereographic plane is an alternative setting for spherical analytic geometry instead of spherical polar coordinates or three-dimensional cartesian coordinates. This is the spherical analog of the Poincaré disk model of the hyperbolic plane. 

Formulas for projection and it's inverse
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stereographic_projection#First_formulation

To find the projection of an antipodal point you can just take a point apply inverse projection negate the 3d point and apply projection again.


A line could be represented as 2 points in the circle and a boolean telling wether the line goes through the inside of the circle or outside.
If a point goes out of the circle (by an isometry for example) then you flip the bool. If both points go out you don't change anything.
To put a point back inside a circle you have to map it to it's antipodal point.



The if a great circle passes through a point it also passes through the antipodal point, because of this in the model a line always passes through the antipodal points of the boundary circle.

If we make a circle that passes through antipodal points of a circle then the circles will go from a straight line (infinite center) to overlapping the original circle. 
It can be seen that always the shorter segment of a circle lies inside the boundary circle. 
Because of this we can for example check if a point is between or outside the shereographic line by checking if it is in  between the endpoints of the actual line.

Could try using gnomonic projection. It doesn't preserve angles, but it does map geodesics into straight lines.

It might be good to later rewrite everything to use double precission. Or at least the laser reflection code, because that is probably responsible for most of the errors.

TODO: Make the collision segments longer so that lasers can't pass in between lines sharing endpoints.

TODO: Debug reflections to display. Give a max number of reflections to display. This could be a nonserialized property in each laser or there could be a map from id to number.

TODO: Lock position and lock angle.

The color out the boundary could inform the player if the objects are placed in a valid way.

TODO: Circular walls.

TODO: An orb that you can't hit.

The continue button would be ungreyed when a solution is reached only after pressing the button is the next level opened.

TODO: Could add a flag that makes mirrors one sided.



Not sure if there is any issue with portals working like they do. Topologically this space is homeomorphic to the projective plane which is nonoritentable.
If there is a portal and you move forward the portal should reverse direction.
That is the portal would move outside the hemisphere
This would map the portal to antipodal points which would reverse it's direction.
But wouldn't this also translate the laser going though the portal. Wouldn't this lead to a contradiction?
I guess when it passes through the boundary it also has to pass through the origin so maybe there would be no discontinuity. This doesn't seem right.

You could conside the situtation on the mobius band, and it might be simpler. The issue is that I don't know the geodesics.

If you place things in this order from bottom to top.
Wall, Laser, Portal 1, Wall, Portal 2
The laser is pointing into the left side of the portal 1
The Portal 2 is pointing upward.
Then things look correct.

TODO: Maybe add orientation reversing portals (mirroring portals).



Could make a simulation class that would use the geme representation.
The editor would initialize it each frame. By resetting it and addint the entities back.

TODO: Walls that can pass only certain colors of lasers or maybe triggers that can be activated by only a certain laser.

One issue with doors is that when there are multiple layers there isn't really a correct way to decide the order in which things are executed.

One option would be to introuce actual time. Then doors wouldn't open instantly. If the doors were to move out of the way then order would make sense I think not sure.

Maybe make doors that open from different sides. LEFT, RIGHT, CENTER,

Could have a randomized title screen. Could diplay things like the vonoroi diagram, Boy's surface, Roman surface. Could have a menu item that allows to view all the alternative screens with explanations.

The way checking if objects are in valid state is implemented could probably be abused. For example you could pause doors by putting an object in an invalid position, then move some other object.
Could maybe lock all the objects except the one that is the invalid state. I am scared that that might cause softlocks.
This kind of reminds me of the portal level where you could unlock the door by moving the laser left to right fast enough and moving back to go though the door.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=onQxXNqOglA




https://www.geogebra.org/m/j4yqa9jd



Games like portal constrain the configuration for example only allowing to put portals on certain walls. Could have areas that the player can't place objects on or maybe just can't place certain objects (for example of the wrong color). 
Not sure what would be the best way to display this. Could for example have cells for the tiling colored a certain color. Could have a boundary on each cells colored individually or just remove the boundaries of neighbouring  cells (this would also show that antipodal sides are connected) using algebraic topology.

What you see in the game is a map of the elliptic plane. Just like on a map of the earth things are distorted. Shortest paths aren't straight lines, areas are scaled, boundaries on the map aren't boundaries of the space. The map used in the game preserves angles so the law of reflection has the same from as in eucledian geometry that is angle of incidence = angle of reflection. Antipodal points on the boundary are actually the same point. When you move through the boundary you emerge at the antipodal point.


TODO: Document how the game spaces work and make text ui rendering work normally.

Make the camera transforms take size instead of scale.

On off switch with the text faded using sdfs. Would have to somehow combine the characters in the shader into a single sdf. Another option would be to use symbols like O and I instead of words.


Level 4 but there is a trigger. 


1 Introduce lasers
2 Show that lasers wrap around.
3 Introduce mirrors
4 Same level but moved by an isometry. Maybe the player will notice.
5 Show bending at cross or T pattern.
6 More bending
7 Just a puzzle. More t patterns if you notice.
8 Show that you can move some mirrors. The player can't reach the target so they will try to move something hopefully.
9 Variation of 6. Just a puzzle doesn't show anything new.
10. Puzzle not solvable using one one sided mirror I think. A bit of a motivation for the double sided mirror. One solution is to create a double sided  mirror. There are also solutions that don't do this. (used 24 line grid)
11 Same as 10 but with a double sided mirror.
12. Chaos
13. Symmetry
14. Portals introduction
15. Just portals puzzle
16. Portals and mirrors puzzle
17. Unrechable
18. Door introduction
19. Unrechable

No Hysteresis. You can't solve using the double mirror trick (you could technically, but would need to do it very fast).
Hysteresis. You

TODO: Unreachability when cut but 2 lines.

I wonder if the bending works in a similar way to Einstein crosses. I thing you would see several copies of the object if light bend like this. In 2d one on the left of the blocking object and one on the right.


Could add arrows to indicate that a laser has gone around the hemisphere, but with mirrors there would be multiple arrows at the same point.

Rotation in 3D
Euler angles is 3 circles so it's going to be a quotient of the 3 torus
Quaternions is the surface of the 3 sphere, because it's all quaternions with unit length. Also a quotient space.
Axis and angle will be a ball in R^3 with antipodal points identified. The radius of a point will be the angle.

Not sure what is the best way to move in a random direction.
Could move on the 3 ball by generating a random radius change and a random 2d direction. Would move on a geodesic in the direction (dx, dy) * r and move on the radius by dr.